.nh
.TH "VESPA-AUTH-LOGIN" "1" "Jan 2026" "" ""

.SH NAME
vespa-auth-login - Authenticate Vespa CLI with Vespa Cloud control plane. This is preferred over api-key for interactive use


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvespa auth login [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Authenticate Vespa CLI with Vespa Cloud control plane. This is preferred over api-key for interactive use.

.PP
This command runs a browser-based authentication flow for the Vespa Cloud control plane.

.PP
Use --file-storage flag to store the refresh token in unencrypted files instead of the system keyring.
This is useful in SSH/CI/Docker environments where keyring access may not be available.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB--file-storage\fP[=false]
	Use file storage (unencrypted) instead of keyring for storing refresh token

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for login


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB-a\fP, \fB--application\fP=""
	The application to use (cloud only). Format "tenant.application.instance" - instance is optional

.PP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cluster\fP=""
	The container cluster to use. This is only required for applications with multiple clusters

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--color\fP="auto"
	Whether to use colors in output. Must be "auto", "never", or "always"

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--instance\fP=""
	The instance of the application to use (cloud only)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Print only errors

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--target\fP="local"
	The target platform to use. Must be "local", "cloud", "hosted" or an URL

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zone\fP=""
	The zone to use. This defaults to a dev zone (cloud only)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
$ vespa auth login
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvespa-auth(1)\fP
