.nh
.TH "VESPA-VISIT" "1" "Jan 2026" "" ""

.SH NAME
vespa-visit - Retrieve and print all documents from Vespa


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvespa visit [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Retrieve and print all documents from Vespa.

.PP
By default, prints each document received on its own line (JSONL format).


.SH OPTIONS
\fB--bucket-space\fP=[global,default]
	The "default" or "global" bucket space

.PP
\fB--chunk-count\fP=1000
	Chunk by count

.PP
\fB--content-cluster\fP="*"
	Which content cluster to visit documents from

.PP
\fB--field-set\fP=""
	Which fieldset to ask for

.PP
\fB--from\fP=""
	Timestamp to visit from, in seconds

.PP
\fB--header\fP=[]
	Add a header to the HTTP request, on the format 'Header: Value'. This can be specified multiple times

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for visit

.PP
\fB--json-lines\fP[=true]
	Output documents as JSON lines

.PP
\fB--make-feed\fP[=false]
	Output JSON array suitable for vespa-feeder

.PP
\fB--pretty-json\fP[=false]
	Format pretty JSON

.PP
\fB--selection\fP=""
	Select subset of cluster

.PP
\fB--slice-id\fP=-1
	The number of the slice this visit invocation should fetch

.PP
\fB--slices\fP=-1
	Split the document corpus into this number of independent slices

.PP
\fB--stream\fP[=false]
	Stream the HTTP responses

.PP
\fB--to\fP=""
	Timestamp to visit up to, in seconds

.PP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP[=false]
	Print the equivalent curl command for the visit operation

.PP
\fB-w\fP, \fB--wait\fP=0
	Number of seconds to wait for service(s) to become ready. 0 to disable (default 0)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB-a\fP, \fB--application\fP=""
	The application to use (cloud only). Format "tenant.application.instance" - instance is optional

.PP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cluster\fP=""
	The container cluster to use. This is only required for applications with multiple clusters

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--color\fP="auto"
	Whether to use colors in output. Must be "auto", "never", or "always"

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--instance\fP=""
	The instance of the application to use (cloud only)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Print only errors

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--target\fP="local"
	The target platform to use. Must be "local", "cloud", "hosted" or an URL

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zone\fP=""
	The zone to use. This defaults to a dev zone (cloud only)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
$ vespa visit # get documents from any cluster
$ vespa visit --content-cluster search # get documents from cluster named "search"
$ vespa visit --field-set "[id]" # list document IDs

.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvespa(1)\fP
