.nh
.TH "VESPA-DOCUMENT" "1" "Jan 2026" "" ""

.SH NAME
vespa-document - Issue a single document operation to Vespa


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvespa document json-file [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Issue a single document operation to Vespa.

.PP
The operation must be on the format documented in
https://docs.vespa.ai/en/reference/schemas/document-json-format.html#document-operations

.PP
When this returns successfully, the document is guaranteed to be visible in any
subsequent get or query operation.

.PP
To feed with high throughput, https://docs.vespa.ai/en/reference/clients/vespa-cli/vespa_feed.html
should be used instead of this.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-d\fP, \fB--data\fP=""
	Document data to use instead of reading from file or stdin

.PP
\fB--header\fP=[]
	Add a header to the HTTP request, on the format 'Header: Value'. This can be specified multiple times

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for document

.PP
\fB-T\fP, \fB--timeout\fP=60
	Timeout for the document request in seconds

.PP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP[=false]
	Print the equivalent curl command for the document operation

.PP
\fB-w\fP, \fB--wait\fP=0
	Number of seconds to wait for service(s) to become ready. 0 to disable (default 0)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB-a\fP, \fB--application\fP=""
	The application to use (cloud only). Format "tenant.application.instance" - instance is optional

.PP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cluster\fP=""
	The container cluster to use. This is only required for applications with multiple clusters

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--color\fP="auto"
	Whether to use colors in output. Must be "auto", "never", or "always"

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--instance\fP=""
	The instance of the application to use (cloud only)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Print only errors

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--target\fP="local"
	The target platform to use. Must be "local", "cloud", "hosted" or an URL

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zone\fP=""
	The zone to use. This defaults to a dev zone (cloud only)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
$ vespa document src/test/resources/A-Head-Full-of-Dreams.json
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvespa(1)\fP, \fBvespa-document-get(1)\fP, \fBvespa-document-put(1)\fP, \fBvespa-document-remove(1)\fP, \fBvespa-document-update(1)\fP
