.nh
.TH "VESPA-CONFIG" "1" "Jan 2026" "" ""

.SH NAME
vespa-config - Manage persistent values for global flags


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvespa config [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Manage persistent values for global flags.

.PP
This command allows setting persistent values for the global flags found in
Vespa CLI. On future invocations the flag can then be omitted as it is read
from the config file instead.

.PP
Configuration is written to $HOME/.vespa by default. This path can be
overridden by setting the VESPA_CLI_HOME environment variable.

.PP
When setting an option locally, the configuration is written to .vespa in the
working directory. When reading configuration, Vespa CLI searches for .vespa
in the current directory and parent directories, allowing you to run commands
from subdirectories of your application. This allows you to have separate
configuration options per application.

.PP
Vespa CLI chooses the value for a given option in the following order, from
most to least preferred:
.IP "  1." 5
Flag value specified on the command line
.IP "  2." 5
Local config value
.IP "  3." 5
Global config value
.IP "  4." 5
Default value

.PP
The following global flags/options can be configured:

.PP
application

.PP
Specifies the application ID to manage. It has three parts, separated by
dots, with the third part being optional. If the third part is omitted it
defaults to "default". This is only relevant for the "cloud" and "hosted"
targets. See https://docs.vespa.ai/en/learn/tenant-apps-instances.html for more details.
This has no default value. Examples: tenant1.app1, tenant1.app1.instance1

.PP
cluster

.PP
Specifies the container cluster to manage. If left empty (default) and the
application has only one container cluster, that cluster is chosen
automatically. When an application has multiple cluster this must specify a
valid cluster name, as specified in services.xml. See
https://docs.vespa.ai/en/reference/applications/services/container.html for more details.

.PP
color

.PP
Controls how Vespa CLI uses colors. Setting this to "auto" (default) enables
colors if supported by the terminal, "never" completely disables colors and
"always" enables colors unilaterally.

.PP
instance

.PP
Specifies the instance of the application to manage. When specified, this takes
precedence over the instance specified as part of the 'application' option.
This has no default value and is only relevant for the "cloud" and "hosted"
targets. Example: instance2

.PP
quiet

.PP
Suppress informational output. Errors are still printed.

.PP
target

.PP
Specifies the target to use for commands that interact with a Vespa platform,
e.g. vespa deploy or vespa query. Possible values are:
.IP \(bu 2
local:  (default) Connect to a Vespa platform running at localhost. When using
      this target, container clusters are automatically discovered and are
      chosen with the cluster option. This assumes that the configserver is
      available on port 19071 (the default when using the Vespa container
      image).
.IP \(bu 2
cloud:  Connect to Vespa Cloud. When using this target, container clusters are
      automatically discovered and can be selected with the cluster option.
.IP \(bu 2
hosted: Connect to hosted Vespa (reserved for internal use)
.IP \(bu 2
\fIurl\fP:  Connect to a platform running at given URL. This instructs the command
      you're running to target a concrete URL. The cluster option cannot be
      used with this target.

.PP
Authentication is configured automatically for the cloud and hosted targets. To
set a custom private key and certificate, e.g. for use with a self-hosted Vespa
installation configured with mTLS, see the documentation of 'vespa auth cert'.

.PP
zone

.PP
Specifies a custom zone to use when connecting to a Vespa Cloud application.
This is only relevant for cloud and hosted targets and defaults to a dev zone.
See https://docs.vespa.ai/en/operations/zones.html for available zones. Examples:
dev.aws-us-east-1c, dev.gcp-us-central1-f


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for config


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB-a\fP, \fB--application\fP=""
	The application to use (cloud only). Format "tenant.application.instance" - instance is optional

.PP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cluster\fP=""
	The container cluster to use. This is only required for applications with multiple clusters

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--color\fP="auto"
	Whether to use colors in output. Must be "auto", "never", or "always"

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--instance\fP=""
	The instance of the application to use (cloud only)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Print only errors

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--target\fP="local"
	The target platform to use. Must be "local", "cloud", "hosted" or an URL

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zone\fP=""
	The zone to use. This defaults to a dev zone (cloud only)


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvespa(1)\fP, \fBvespa-config-get(1)\fP, \fBvespa-config-set(1)\fP, \fBvespa-config-unset(1)\fP
