.nh
.TH "VESPA-CONFIG-SET" "1" "Jan 2026" "" ""

.SH NAME
vespa-config-set - Set a configuration option.


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvespa config set option-name value [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Set a configuration option.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for set

.PP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--local\fP[=false]
	Write option to local configuration, i.e. for the current application


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB-a\fP, \fB--application\fP=""
	The application to use (cloud only). Format "tenant.application.instance" - instance is optional

.PP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cluster\fP=""
	The container cluster to use. This is only required for applications with multiple clusters

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--color\fP="auto"
	Whether to use colors in output. Must be "auto", "never", or "always"

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--instance\fP=""
	The instance of the application to use (cloud only)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Print only errors

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--target\fP="local"
	The target platform to use. Must be "local", "cloud", "hosted" or an URL

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zone\fP=""
	The zone to use. This defaults to a dev zone (cloud only)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
# Set the target to Vespa Cloud
$ vespa config set target cloud

# Set application, without a specific instance. The instance will be named "default"
$ vespa config set application my-tenant.my-application

# Set application with a specific instance
$ vespa config set application my-tenant.my-application.my-instance

# Set the instance explicitly. This will take precedence over an instance specified as part of the application option.
$ vespa config set instance other-instance

# Set an option in local configuration, for the current application only
$ vespa config set --local zone dev.aws-us-east-1c
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvespa-config(1)\fP
