.nh
.TH "VESPA-LOG" "1" "Jan 2026" "" ""

.SH NAME
vespa-log - Show the Vespa log


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvespa log [relative-period] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Show the Vespa log.

.PP
The logs shown can be limited to a relative or fixed period. All timestamps are shown in UTC.

.PP
Logs for the past hour are shown if no arguments are given.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-f\fP, \fB--follow\fP[=false]
	Follow logs

.PP
\fB-F\fP, \fB--from\fP=""
	Include logs since this timestamp (RFC3339 format)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for log

.PP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--level\fP="debug"
	The maximum log level to show. Must be "error", "warning", "info" or "debug"

.PP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--nldequote\fP[=true]
	Dequote LF and TAB characters in log messages

.PP
\fB-T\fP, \fB--to\fP=""
	Include logs until this timestamp (RFC3339 format)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB-a\fP, \fB--application\fP=""
	The application to use (cloud only). Format "tenant.application.instance" - instance is optional

.PP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cluster\fP=""
	The container cluster to use. This is only required for applications with multiple clusters

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--color\fP="auto"
	Whether to use colors in output. Must be "auto", "never", or "always"

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--instance\fP=""
	The instance of the application to use (cloud only)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Print only errors

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--target\fP="local"
	The target platform to use. Must be "local", "cloud", "hosted" or an URL

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zone\fP=""
	The zone to use. This defaults to a dev zone (cloud only)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
$ vespa log 1h
$ vespa log --nldequote=false 10m
$ vespa log --from 2021-08-25T15:00:00Z --to 2021-08-26T02:00:00Z
$ vespa log --follow
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvespa(1)\fP
