.nh
.TH "VESPA-QUERY" "1" "Jan 2026" "" ""

.SH NAME
vespa-query - Issue a query to Vespa


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvespa query query-parameters [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Issue a query to Vespa.

.PP
Any parameter from https://docs.vespa.ai/en/reference/api/query.html
can be set by the syntax [parameter-name]=[value].


.SH OPTIONS
\fB--file\fP=""
	Read query parameters from the given JSON file and send a POST request, with overrides from arguments

.PP
\fB--format\fP="human"
	Output format. Must be 'human' (human-readable) or 'plain' (no formatting)

.PP
\fB--header\fP=[]
	Add a header to the HTTP request, on the format 'Header: Value'. This can be specified multiple times

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for query

.PP
\fB-T\fP, \fB--timeout\fP=10
	Timeout for the query in seconds

.PP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP[=false]
	Print the equivalent curl command for the query

.PP
\fB-w\fP, \fB--wait\fP=0
	Number of seconds to wait for service(s) to become ready. 0 to disable (default 0)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB-a\fP, \fB--application\fP=""
	The application to use (cloud only). Format "tenant.application.instance" - instance is optional

.PP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cluster\fP=""
	The container cluster to use. This is only required for applications with multiple clusters

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--color\fP="auto"
	Whether to use colors in output. Must be "auto", "never", or "always"

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--instance\fP=""
	The instance of the application to use (cloud only)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Print only errors

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--target\fP="local"
	The target platform to use. Must be "local", "cloud", "hosted" or an URL

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zone\fP=""
	The zone to use. This defaults to a dev zone (cloud only)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
$ vespa query 'yql=select * from music where album contains "head"' hits=5
$ vespa query --format=plain 'yql=select * from music where album contains "head"' hits=5
$ vespa query --file q-vector.json
$ vespa query --header='X-First-Name: Joe' 'yql=select * from music where album contains "head"' hits=5
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvespa(1)\fP
