.nh
.TH "VESPA-DESTROY" "1" "Jan 2026" "" ""

.SH NAME
vespa-destroy - Remove a deployed Vespa application and its data


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvespa destroy [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Remove a deployed Vespa application and its data.

.PP
This command removes the currently deployed application and permanently
deletes its data.

.PP
When run interactively, the command will prompt for confirmation before
removing the application. When run non-interactively, the command will refuse
to remove the application unless the --force option is given.

.PP
This command can only be used to remove non-production deployments, in Vespa
Cloud. See https://docs.vespa.ai/en/operations/deleting-applications.html for how to remove
production deployments.

.PP
For other systems, destroy the application by removing the
containers in use by the application. For example:
https://github.com/vespa-engine/sample-apps/tree/master/examples/operations/multinode-HA#clean-up-after-testing


.SH OPTIONS
\fB--force\fP[=false]
	Disable confirmation (default false)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for destroy


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB-a\fP, \fB--application\fP=""
	The application to use (cloud only). Format "tenant.application.instance" - instance is optional

.PP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cluster\fP=""
	The container cluster to use. This is only required for applications with multiple clusters

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--color\fP="auto"
	Whether to use colors in output. Must be "auto", "never", or "always"

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--instance\fP=""
	The instance of the application to use (cloud only)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Print only errors

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--target\fP="local"
	The target platform to use. Must be "local", "cloud", "hosted" or an URL

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zone\fP=""
	The zone to use. This defaults to a dev zone (cloud only)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
$ vespa destroy
$ vespa destroy -a mytenant.myapp.myinstance
$ vespa destroy --force
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvespa(1)\fP
