Product Team Weekly Sync - January 15, 2025
Attendees: Mike (PM), Sarah (Eng Lead), Tom (Design), Lisa (QA), Jake (Backend)

## Updates

Mike: Q1 roadmap is finalized. Main focus is performance improvements and the new collaboration features. We need to ship the real-time editing by end of Feb. Marketing wants a beta announcement by Jan 30.

Sarah: Backend refactoring is 60% done. Hit some issues with the legacy payment system - it's tightly coupled with the old auth module. Might need an extra sprint. Jake is looking into it.

Jake: The payment issue is worse than expected. We have technical debt from 2019 that nobody documented. I found 3 different ways payments are processed depending on the plan type. Proposing we standardize on Stripe for everything, but that's a bigger project.

Tom: New onboarding mockups are ready for review. Reduced steps from 7 to 4. User research showed people drop off at the team invitation step - made that optional now.

Lisa: Found 12 bugs in the new export feature, 3 are critical. The PDF generation crashes on reports with more than 100 charts. Also, the date filter is broken in Safari - shows wrong timezone.

## Decisions
- Push real-time editing to March if payment refactoring blocks it
- Tom to share mockups in Figma by EOD
- Jake to write RFC for payment standardization
- Lisa's critical bugs to be fixed before any new features

## Action Items
- Mike: Update stakeholders on potential timeline slip
- Sarah: Review Jake's RFC by Thursday
- Tom: Schedule design review with customer success team
- Lisa: Create regression test suite for exports
- Jake: Estimate LOE for Stripe migration

## Parking Lot
- Mobile app redesign (revisit in Q2)
- API rate limiting changes (Jake to propose)
- New pricing tiers (waiting on finance input)

Next meeting: January 22, 2025
