{
  "user_input": "Extract all action items from these meeting notes. For each action item, identify: the owner, the task, and the deadline (if mentioned). Format as a checklist.\n\n---\nProduct Team Weekly Sync - January 15, 2025\nAttendees: Mike (PM), Sarah (Eng Lead), Tom (Design), Lisa (QA), Jake (Backend)\n\n## Updates\n\nMike: Q1 roadmap is finalized. Main focus is performance improvements and the new collaboration features. We need to ship the real-time editing by end of Feb. Marketing wants a beta announcement by Jan 30.\n\nSarah: Backend refactoring is 60% done. Hit some issues with the legacy payment system - it's tightly coupled with the old auth module. Might need an extra sprint. Jake is looking into it.\n\nJake: The payment issue is worse than expected. We have technical debt from 2019 that nobody documented. I found 3 different ways payments are processed depending on the plan type. Proposing we standardize on Stripe for everything, but that's a bigger project.\n\nTom: New onboarding mockups are ready for review. Reduced steps from 7 to 4. User research showed people drop off at the team invitation step - made that optional now.\n\nLisa: Found 12 bugs in the new export feature, 3 are critical. The PDF generation crashes on reports with more than 100 charts. Also, the date filter is broken in Safari - shows wrong timezone.\n\n## Decisions\n- Push real-time editing to March if payment refactoring blocks it\n- Tom to share mockups in Figma by EOD\n- Jake to write RFC for payment standardization\n- Lisa's critical bugs to be fixed before any new features\n\n## Action Items\n- Mike: Update stakeholders on potential timeline slip\n- Sarah: Review Jake's RFC by Thursday\n- Tom: Schedule design review with customer success team\n- Lisa: Create regression test suite for exports\n- Jake: Estimate LOE for Stripe migration\n\n## Parking Lot\n- Mobile app redesign (revisit in Q2)\n- API rate limiting changes (Jake to propose)\n- New pricing tiers (waiting on finance input)\n\nNext meeting: January 22, 2025",
  "system_prompt": "You are a project coordinator. Extract action items precisely and format them clearly."
}
