.nh
.TH "VESPA-CURL" "1" "Jan 2026" "" ""

.SH NAME
vespa-curl - Access Vespa directly using curl


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvespa curl [curl-options] path [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Access Vespa directly using curl.

.PP
Execute curl with the appropriate URL, certificate and private key for your application.

.PP
For a more high-level interface to query and feeding, see the 'query' and 'document' commands.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-n\fP, \fB--dry-run\fP[=false]
	Print the curl command that would be executed

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for curl

.PP
\fB-w\fP, \fB--wait\fP=0
	Number of seconds to wait for service(s) to become ready. 0 to disable (default 0)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB-a\fP, \fB--application\fP=""
	The application to use (cloud only). Format "tenant.application.instance" - instance is optional

.PP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cluster\fP=""
	The container cluster to use. This is only required for applications with multiple clusters

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--color\fP="auto"
	Whether to use colors in output. Must be "auto", "never", or "always"

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--instance\fP=""
	The instance of the application to use (cloud only)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Print only errors

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--target\fP="local"
	The target platform to use. Must be "local", "cloud", "hosted" or an URL

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zone\fP=""
	The zone to use. This defaults to a dev zone (cloud only)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
$ vespa curl /ApplicationStatus
$ vespa curl -- -X POST -H "Content-Type:application/json" --data-binary @src/test/resources/A-Head-Full-of-Dreams.json /document/v1/namespace/music/docid/1
$ vespa curl -- -v --data-urlencode "yql=select * from music where album contains 'head'" /search/\\?hits=5
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvespa(1)\fP
