.nh
.TH "VESPA-FEED" "1" "Jan 2026" "" ""

.SH NAME
vespa-feed - Feed multiple document operations to Vespa


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvespa feed json-file [json-file]... [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Feed multiple document operations to Vespa.

.PP
This command can be used to feed large amounts of documents to a Vespa cluster
efficiently.

.PP
The contents of json-file must be either a JSON array or JSON objects separated by
newline (JSONL).

.PP
If json-file is a single dash ('-'), documents will be read from standard input.

.PP
Once feeding completes, metrics of the feed session are printed to standard out
in a JSON format:
.IP \(bu 2
feeder.operation.count: Number of operations passed to the feeder by the user,
not counting retries.
.IP \(bu 2
feeder.seconds: Total time spent feeding.
.IP \(bu 2
feeder.ok.count: Number of successful operations.
.IP \(bu 2
feeder.ok.rate: Number of successful operations per second.
.IP \(bu 2
feeder.error.count: Number of network errors (transport layer).
.IP \(bu 2
feeder.inflight.count: Number of operations currently being sent.
.IP \(bu 2
http.request.count: Number of HTTP requests made, including retries.
.IP \(bu 2
http.request.bytes: Number of bytes sent.
.IP \(bu 2
http.request.MBps: Request throughput measured in MB/s. This is the raw
operation throughput, and not the network throughput,
I.e. using compression does not affect this number.
.IP \(bu 2
http.exception.count: Same as feeder.error.count. Present for compatibility
with vespa-feed-client.
.IP \(bu 2
http.response.count: Number of HTTP responses received.
.IP \(bu 2
http.response.bytes: Number of bytes received.
.IP \(bu 2
http.response.MBps: Response throughput measured in MB/s.
.IP \(bu 2
http.response.error.count: Number of non-OK HTTP responses received.
.IP \(bu 2
http.response.latency.millis.min: Lowest latency of a successful operation.
.IP \(bu 2
http.response.latency.millis.avg: Average latency of successful operations.
.IP \(bu 2
http.response.latency.millis.max: Highest latency of a successful operation.
.IP \(bu 2
http.response.code.counts: Number of responses grouped by their HTTP code.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB--compression\fP="auto"
	Whether to compress the document data when sending the HTTP request. Default is "auto", which compresses large documents. Must be "auto", "gzip" or "none"

.PP
\fB--connections\fP=8
	The number of connections to use

.PP
\fB--deadline\fP=0
	Exit if this number of seconds elapse without any successful operations. 0 to disable (default 0)

.PP
\fB--header\fP=[]
	Add a header to all HTTP requests, on the format 'Header: Value'. This can be specified multiple times

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for feed

.PP
\fB--inflight\fP=0
	The target number of inflight requests. 0 to dynamically detect the best value (default 0)

.PP
\fB--progress\fP=0
	Print stats summary at given interval, in seconds. 0 to disable (default 0)

.PP
\fB--route\fP=""
	Target Vespa route for feed operations (default "default")

.PP
\fB--speedtest\fP=0
	Perform a network speed test using given payload, in bytes. 0 to disable (default 0)

.PP
\fB--speedtest-duration\fP=60
	Duration of speedtest, in seconds

.PP
\fB--timeout\fP=0
	Individual feed operation timeout in seconds. 0 to disable (default 0)

.PP
\fB--trace\fP=0
	Network traffic trace level in the range [0,9]. 0 to disable (default 0)

.PP
\fB--verbose\fP[=false]
	Verbose mode. Print successful operations in addition to errors

.PP
\fB-w\fP, \fB--wait\fP=0
	Number of seconds to wait for service(s) to become ready. 0 to disable (default 0)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB-a\fP, \fB--application\fP=""
	The application to use (cloud only). Format "tenant.application.instance" - instance is optional

.PP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cluster\fP=""
	The container cluster to use. This is only required for applications with multiple clusters

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--color\fP="auto"
	Whether to use colors in output. Must be "auto", "never", or "always"

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--instance\fP=""
	The instance of the application to use (cloud only)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Print only errors

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--target\fP="local"
	The target platform to use. Must be "local", "cloud", "hosted" or an URL

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zone\fP=""
	The zone to use. This defaults to a dev zone (cloud only)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
$ vespa feed docs.jsonl moredocs.json
$ cat docs.jsonl | vespa feed -
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvespa(1)\fP
