.nh
.TH "VESPA-STATUS-DEPLOYMENT" "1" "Jan 2026" "" ""

.SH NAME
vespa-status-deployment - Show status of a Vespa deployment


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvespa status deployment [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Show status of a Vespa deployment.

.PP
This commands shows whether a Vespa deployment has converged on the latest run
(Vespa Cloud) or config generation (self-hosted). If an argument is given,
show the convergence status of that particular run or generation.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for deployment

.PP
\fB-w\fP, \fB--wait\fP=0
	Number of seconds to wait for service(s) to become ready. 0 to disable (default 0)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB-a\fP, \fB--application\fP=""
	The application to use (cloud only). Format "tenant.application.instance" - instance is optional

.PP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cluster\fP=""
	The container cluster to use. This is only required for applications with multiple clusters

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--color\fP="auto"
	Whether to use colors in output. Must be "auto", "never", or "always"

.PP
\fB--format\fP="human"
	Output format. Must be 'human' (human-readable) or 'plain' (cluster URL only)

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--instance\fP=""
	The instance of the application to use (cloud only)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Print only errors

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--target\fP="local"
	The target platform to use. Must be "local", "cloud", "hosted" or an URL

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zone\fP=""
	The zone to use. This defaults to a dev zone (cloud only)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
$ vespa status deployment
$ vespa status deployment -t cloud [run-id]
$ vespa status deployment -t local [session-id]
$ vespa status deployment -t local [session-id] --wait 600

.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvespa-status(1)\fP
