.nh
.TH "VESPA-CLONE" "1" "Jan 2026" "" ""

.SH NAME
vespa-clone - Create files and directory structure from a Vespa sample application


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvespa clone sample-application-path target-directory [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Create files and directory structure from a Vespa sample application.

.PP
Sample applications are downloaded from
https://github.com/vespa-engine/sample-apps.

.PP
By default, sample applications are cached in the user's cache directory. This
directory can be overridden by setting the VESPA_CLI_CACHE_DIR environment
variable.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-f\fP, \fB--force\fP[=false]
	Ignore cache and force downloading the latest sample application from GitHub

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for clone

.PP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--list\fP[=false]
	List available sample applications


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB-a\fP, \fB--application\fP=""
	The application to use (cloud only). Format "tenant.application.instance" - instance is optional

.PP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cluster\fP=""
	The container cluster to use. This is only required for applications with multiple clusters

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--color\fP="auto"
	Whether to use colors in output. Must be "auto", "never", or "always"

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--instance\fP=""
	The instance of the application to use (cloud only)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Print only errors

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--target\fP="local"
	The target platform to use. Must be "local", "cloud", "hosted" or an URL

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zone\fP=""
	The zone to use. This defaults to a dev zone (cloud only)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
$ vespa clone album-recommendation my-app
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvespa(1)\fP
