.nh
.TH "VESPA-AUTH-CERT" "1" "Jan 2026" "" ""

.SH NAME
vespa-auth-cert - Create a new self-signed certificate for authentication with Vespa Cloud data plane


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvespa auth cert [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a new self-signed certificate for authentication with Vespa Cloud data plane.

.PP
The private key and certificate will be stored in the Vespa CLI home directory
(see 'vespa help config'). Other commands will then automatically load the
certificate as necessary. The certificate will be added to your application
package specified as an argument to this command (default '.').

.PP
It's possible to override the private key and certificate used through
environment variables. This can be useful in continuous integration systems.

.PP
It's also possible override the CA certificate which can be useful when using
self-signed certificates with a self-hosted Vespa service.
See https://docs.vespa.ai/en/security/mtls.html for more
information.

.PP
Example of setting the CA certificate, certificate and key in-line:

.EX
export VESPA_CLI_DATA_PLANE_CA_CERT="my CA cert"
export VESPA_CLI_DATA_PLANE_CERT="my cert"
export VESPA_CLI_DATA_PLANE_KEY="my private key"
.EE

.PP
Example of loading CA certificate, certificate and key from custom paths:

.EX
export VESPA_CLI_DATA_PLANE_CA_CERT_FILE=/path/to/cacert
export VESPA_CLI_DATA_PLANE_CERT_FILE=/path/to/cert
export VESPA_CLI_DATA_PLANE_KEY_FILE=/path/to/key
.EE

.PP
Example of disabling verification of the server's certificate chain and
hostname:

.EX
export VESPA_CLI_DATA_PLANE_TRUST_ALL=true
.EE

.PP
Note that when overriding key pair through environment variables, that key pair
will always be used for all applications. It's not possible to specify an
application-specific key.

.PP
See https://docs.vespa.ai/en/security/guide.html for more details.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-f\fP, \fB--force\fP[=false]
	Force overwrite of existing certificate and private key

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for cert

.PP
\fB-N\fP, \fB--no-add\fP[=false]
	Do not add certificate to the application package


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB-a\fP, \fB--application\fP=""
	The application to use (cloud only). Format "tenant.application.instance" - instance is optional

.PP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cluster\fP=""
	The container cluster to use. This is only required for applications with multiple clusters

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--color\fP="auto"
	Whether to use colors in output. Must be "auto", "never", or "always"

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--instance\fP=""
	The instance of the application to use (cloud only)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Print only errors

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--target\fP="local"
	The target platform to use. Must be "local", "cloud", "hosted" or an URL

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zone\fP=""
	The zone to use. This defaults to a dev zone (cloud only)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
$ vespa auth cert
$ vespa auth cert -a my-tenant.my-app.my-instance
$ vespa auth cert -a my-tenant.my-app.my-instance path/to/application/package
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvespa-auth(1)\fP, \fBvespa-auth-cert-add(1)\fP
